

CARLA is an open-source simulator for autonomous driving research. CARLA has been developed from the ground up to support development, training, and validation of autonomous driving systems. In addition to open-source code and protocols, CARLA provides open digital assets (urban layouts, buildings, vehicles) that were created for this purpose and can be used freely. The simulation platform supports flexible specification of sensor suites and environmental conditions.

If you want to benchmark your model in the same conditions as in our CoRL’17 paper, check out Benchmarking.
Repositories associated to the CARLA simulation platform:
Like what you see? Star us on GitHub to support the project!
If you use CARLA, please cite our CoRL’17 paper.
CARLA: An Open Urban Driving Simulator
Alexey Dosovitskiy, German Ros, Felipe Codevilla, Antonio Lopez, Vladlen Koltun; PMLR 78:1-16 [PDF] [talk]
Use git clone or download the project from this page. Note that the master branch contains the latest fixes and features, for the latest stable code may be best to switch to the stable branch.
Then follow the instruction at How to build on Linux or How to build on Windows.
The Linux build needs for an UE patch to solve some visualization issues regarding Vulkan. Those already working with a Linux build should install the patch and make the UE build again using the following commands.
Unfortunately we don't have official instructions to build on Mac yet, please check the progress at issue #150.
Please take a look at our Contribution guidelines.
If you run into problems, check our FAQ.
The team creates some additional content for users, besides the docs. This is a great way to cover different subjects such as detailed explanations for a specific module, latest improvements in a feature, future work and much more.
CARLA Talks 2020 (May):
CARLA specific code is distributed under MIT License.
CARLA specific assets are distributed under CC-BY License.
The ad-rss-lib library compiled and linked by the RSS Integration build variant introduces LGPL-2.1-only License.
Note that UE4 itself follows its own license terms.
Get CARLA overnight build
Intel i7 gen 9th - 11th / Intel i9 gen 9th - 11th / AMD ryzen 7 / AMD ryzen 9
+16 GB RAM memory
NVIDIA RTX 2070 / NVIDIA RTX 2080 / NVIDIA RTX 3070, NVIDIA RTX 3080
Ubuntu 18.04
CARLA Autonomous Driving leaderboard: Automatic platform to validate Autonomous Driving stacks
Scenario_Runner: Engine to execute traffic scenarios in CARLA 0.9.X
ROS-bridge: Interface to connect CARLA 0.9.X to ROS
Driving-benchmarks: Benchmark tools for Autonomous Driving tasks
Conditional Imitation-Learning: Training and testing Conditional Imitation Learning models in CARLA
AutoWare AV stack: Bridge to connect AutoWare AV stack to CARLA
Reinforcement-Learning: Code for running Conditional Reinforcement Learning models in CARLA
Map Editor: Standalone GUI application to enhance RoadRunner maps with traffic lights and traffic signs information
General
Art improvements: environment and rendering — video | slides
Core implementations: synchrony, snapshots and landmarks — video | slides
Data ingestion — video | slides
Pedestrians and their implementation — video | slides
Sensors in CARLA — video | slides
Modules
Improvements in the Traffic Manager — video | slides
Integration of autoware and ROS — video | slides
Introducing ScenarioRunner — video | slides
OpenSCENARIO support — slides
Features
Co-Simulations with SUMO and PTV-Vissim — video | slides
Integration of RSS-lib — slides
The External Sensor Interface (ESI) — video | slides
The OpenDRIVE Standalone Mode — video | slides
Art improvements: environment and rendering — video | slides
Core implementations: synchrony, snapshots and landmarks — video | slides
Data ingestion — video | slides
Pedestrians and their implementation — video | slides
Sensors in CARLA — video | slides
Improvements in the Traffic Manager — video | slides
Integration of autoware and ROS — video | slides
Introducing ScenarioRunner — video | slides
OpenSCENARIO support — slides
Co-Simulations with SUMO and PTV-Vissim — video | slides
Integration of RSS-lib — slides
The External Sensor Interface (ESI) — video | slides
The OpenDRIVE Standalone Mode — video | slides
CARLA Simulator
CARLA Ecosystem
Paper
Building CARLA
Contributing
F.A.Q.
CARLA Talks
License
Recommended system
