This repository contains the CAVPolicy dataset and Controlled English (CE) model used in the publication "A Generative Policy Model for Connected and Autonomous Vehicles". Also, to support the publication, the full Answer Set Grammar (ASG) hypothesis space of the learning task in Example 2 is listed here.
cav_policies.csv contains 239,580 annotated Event-Condition-Action (ECA) records for Connected and Autonomous Vehicles (CAVs) generated using the CE model outlined below. The dataset is based around the SAE Levels of Autonomy (LoA), where each row represents a vehicle located in a particular region attempting to execute a driving task under certain environmental conditions. The details of the particular driving task align with the SAE Levels of Autonomy in terms of who is responsible for controlling the vehicle, monitoring the driving environment and who holds fallback responsibility for the driving task. The environmental conditions (weather, visibility and traffic congestion) contain integer values between 0 and 10 inclusive, to represent the severity of the condition and are combined into a weighted average score using the weights listed in environmental_weights.csv. The Level of Autonomy (LoA) of the vehicle and the LoA permitted in each region is given and the result indicates whether this particular policy is approved or rejected according to the LoA of the vehicle, region and driving task. To decide the approve/reject annotation, we first impose thresholds to evaluate the LoA of the requested driving task, which is executed under certain environmental conditions outlined in each policy. If the environmental conditions score is >= 95, the driving task is level 5 always and to distinguish between level 4 and level 5 driving tasks, a score of >= 75 is required, provided also the system is responsible for controlling the vehicle, monitoring the driving environment and has fallback responsibility of the driving task. Finally, a policy should be approved iff Vehicle LoA >= Task LoA <= Region LoA otherwise the policy should be rejected. We instantiate the CE model below with 6 vehicles, 6 regions and 5 driving tasks, where each vehicle, region and driving task correspond to a different LoA. Note that only 5 driving tasks are specified as the only difference between a level 4 task and a level 5 task is the environmental conditions under which it is executed. It is possible to distinguish between levels 0-3 inclusive by evaluating who is responsible for controlling the vehicle, monitoring the driving environment and who holds ultimate responsibility for the driving task. Also, the SAE standard specification states that at levels 0-4 inclusive, there are some extreme driving modes that a vehicle may not be able to operate autonomously under and therefore if a user requests to execute a driving task rated at levels 0-4 inclusive, it may require level 5 automation from the vehicle under these extreme conditions. Given 6 vehicles, 6 regions, 5 tasks and 1331 = 3^11 possible environmental conditions, 239580 = 6 * 6 * 5 * 1331 annotated policies are created.
We utilise CE to provide a semantic knowledge base for the CAV domain, which enables us to generate the dataset described above. The ce folder contains the code explained in this section. The LOA concept can be modelled with a CE statement as shown below, where LOA is a concept in our domain model named level of autonomy. The level of autonomy concept includes values such as the SAE Level (i.e., an integer value between 0 and 5), a definition (i.e., level 2 provides one or more driver assistance functions), an indication as to who is responsible for vehicle control (e.g., the system), who is responsible for monitoring the driving environment (e.g., a human), and who is ultimately responsible for the dynamic driving task (e.g. a human).
To instantiate the LOA concept, we use the CE statement shown below, which states that there is an instance named conditional automation of the level of autonomy concept that has SAE Level 3 and a definition: The driving mode-specific performance by an automated driving system of all aspects of the dynamic driving task with the expectation that the human driver will respond appropriately to a request to intervene. At this LOA the CAV is both responsible for vehicle control and for monitoring the driving environment but ultimately a human is responsible for the dynamic driving task.
The CE model also includes the concepts of driving tasks, driving task instances, vehicles, regions and environmental conditions. These are shown below and can be described as follows:
If you use this code or the datasets please make sure that you cite the following paper:
TBC
CAVPolicy
Dataset
CE Model
Cite
Format
Explanation
