A repository for sharing resources related to autonomous vehicles.
So firstly, the bit that stops people from claiming anyone "stole" their work;
Content added to this repository should be added with your name included in each file you add. By adding files to this repository, you agree that other contributers to this repository may use your file(s), either in part or in full, as long as a reference is given, stating you are the original creator of the file.
All works when created, at least within UK law, are automatically protected by copyright protection under the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988. For more information, please visit 
All contributers should be aware of Coventry University's intellectual property policy. If you need to refresh your knowledge of this, it can be found here, under "Appendix 12: Intellectual Property Rights Policy: Students": -university/key-information/registry/general-regulations/
To keep this repository simple and friendly, please do the following:
. Put your name in files you upload.
. Include the names of others who, in part, helped create files. (If help was given)
. Reference any work that isn't your own.
RULES . Only upload on the tasks allocated to that person unless otherwise stated I.e permission requested
. Don't update others code or other people's tasks without permission I.e requesting assistance. State person who assisted if there is assistance with the code.
. Document why and how the code works so others can understand
. Ensure code remains in the scope of the project, I.e completes the task set out to do.
. Not swearing in official documentation inc github.
. Use proper syntax with useful comments when updating I.e:
UPDATE comments: changed a function name to use camel case for consistency
Now the bit that protects authors;
No guarantee or warranty is offered by the author(s) of any files. No liability is accepted by any author(s). All rights go to respective authors.
Group Links: Shared Google Drive Folder: 
Boat-Team
