
At SunWave-Computing, we believe in democratizing education. How can we provide opportunity to everyone on the planet? We also believe in teaching really amazing and useful subject matter. When we decided to build the Self-Driving Car Nanodegree program, to teach the world to build autonomous vehicles, we instantly knew we had to tackle our own self-driving car too..
Together with Google Self-Driving Car founder and Udacity President Sebastian Thrun, we formed our core Self-Driving Car Team. One of the first decisions we made?
You can read more about our plans for this project.
Here's a list of the projects we've open sourced:
Like any open source project, this code base will require a certain amount of thoughtfulness. However, when you add a 2-ton vehicle into the equation, we also need to make safety our absolute top priority, and pull requests just don’t cut it. To really optimize for safety, we’re breaking down the problem of making the car autonomous into Udacity Challenges.
Each challenge will contain awesome prizes (cash and others) for the most effective contributions, but more importantly, the challenge format enables us to benchmark the safety of the code before we ever think of running it in the car. We believe challenges to be the best medium for us to build a Level-4 autonomous vehicle, while at the same time offering our contributors a valuable and exciting learning experience.
You can find a current list of challenges, with lots of information, on the Udacity self-driving car page. This is the primary way to contribute to this open source self-driving car project.
@ericrgon
@macjshiggins
@olivercameron

#The self-driving cars work alongside Project Gotham, Rainbow and Metropolis, for the battery sustainment of the cars, visual map for geolocation and OCR readability of the destination address respectively. This technology is that of a composite integration.
#Phanthom was updated 9/12/19/.....
Deep Learning Steering Models – Many different neural networks trained to predict steering angles of the car. More information here.
Camera Mount by @spartanhaden – A mount to support a lens and camera body that can be mounted using standard GoPro hardware
Annotated Driving Datasets – Many hours of labelled driving data
Driving Datasets – Over 10 hours of driving data (LIDAR, camera frames and more)
ROS Steering Node – Useful to enable the deep learning models to interact with ROS
Core Contributors
Open Source Base Software Support
We’re Building a Self-Driving Car!!
Contributions
How to Contribute
Challenges
