

Differential robot simulated on Stage. You can add your own map, own robot. ROS nodes developed only include the wallfollowing robot using IR sensors. Wall distance is controlled by a Proportional controller. Integral and Derivative gain may be needed but are not used here.
Explore the docs »

View Demo · Report Bug · Request Feature


This simulation package was developed during the Robotcraft '19 program. A basic right hand follower algorithm was provided by the supervisers but we decided to tune a P(ID) controller, which resulted in a smoother drive than anyone for the amazebot !
To setup ROS, run the "install_melodic.sh" script in the scripts directory using sh install_melodic.sh or chmod+x scripts/install_melodic.sh && ./ install_melodic.sh
You can also use tutorials. There's a bunch of them, including in the ros wiki.
Now that you have ROS, to setup the project on your local machine:
If everything went smoothly, you should now have this repo's package as well as its dependencies.
Running the nodes is quite easy as launch files were made.
See the open issues for a list of proposed features (and known issues).
Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are greatly appreciated.
Otherwise just create the issue yourself, and we'll discuss and assign you to it if serves the project !
To create a PR:
Follow the given link to make a successful and valid PR: -a-pull-request/
To send a PR, follow these rules carefully, otherwise your PR will be closed:
According to what type of issue you believe it is.
For any doubts related to the issues, i.e., to understand the issue better etc, comment down your queries on the respective issue.
Distributed under the MIT License. See LICENSE for more information.
Erwin Lejeune - @spida_rwin - erwin.lejeune15@gmail.com
Everyone part of the original team or that assisted throughout the development.
About the Project
Setup
Run
Reactive
Teleoperation
Roadmap
Contribute
License
Contact
Contributors
Reactive
Teleoperation
Circle Maze : roslaunch robotcraft-ros-navigation circle_maze.launch
Worldmap Maze : roslaunch robotcraft-ros-navigation reactive.launch
Square Maze : roslaunch robotcraft-ros-navigation square_maze.launch
Only one map available : roslaunch robotcraft-ros-navigation teleop.launch
Nicolas Filliol
Jan Tiepelt
Giovanni Alexander Bergamaschi
Oleksandr Koreiba
Erwin Lejeune
Table of Contents
About the Project
Setup
Run
Roadmap
Contribute
License
Contact
Contributors
Amazebot Wallfollowing Package
Reactive Navigation :
Teleoperation :
Contribute on proposed features
