This repository contains the code attached to the paper "Misbehaviour Prediction for Autonomous Driving Systems" by A. Stocco, M. Weiss, M. Calzana, P. Tonella, to be published in the proceedings of the 42nd International Conference in Software Engineering (ICSE 2020).
A preprint of the paper can be found on arXiv.
Software setup: We adopted the PyCharm Professional 2019.3.1, a Python IDE by JetBrains.
If you have anaconda or miniconda installed on your machine, you can create and install all dependencies on a dedicated virtual environment, by running the following command:
Alternatively you can manually install the required libraries (see the contents of the conda-env.yml files) using pip.
Hardware setup: Training the DNN models (self-driving cars and anomaly detectors) on our datasets is computationally expensive. Therefore we recommend using a machine with GPU. In our setting, we ran our experiments on a machine equipped with a i9 processor, 32 GB of memory, and an Nvidia GPU GeForce RTX 2080 Ti with 11GB of dedicated memory.
The repository is structured as follows:
We made the following artifacts available as a torrent here. The files have a combined size of 25 GB (compressed: 7.93 GB) , and the torrent contains:
Note: You do not need the simulator to reproduce the results.
Start up our Udacity self-driving simulator, choose a scene, and press the Autonomous Mode button. Then, run the model as follows:
You'll need the data folder which contains the training images.
This will generate a file model-<epoch>.h5 whenever the performance in the epoch is better than the previous best. For example, the first epoch will generate a file called model-000.h5.
You'll need the data folder which contains the training images.
Our improved Udacity simulator is available as binary file for Windows and macOS platforms here.
Note: Click on the screenshot images to watch a demo video.




If you use our work in your research, or it helps it, or if you simply like it, please cite SelfOracle in your publications. Here is an example BibTeX entry:
MIT. See the LICENSE.md file.
For any questions, feel free to contact Andrea Stocco (andrea.stocco@usi.ch) or Michael Weiss (michael.weiss@usi.ch).
Misbehaviour Prediction for Autonomous Driving Systems
Dependencies
Repository Structure
Usage
Improved Udacity simulator
Reference
License
Contacts
Other Artefacts
Reproduce the results
Run the pretrained SDC models
Train a SDC model
Train an anomaly detector
Screenshots and video of the simulator
