Starting this year, the SBST Workshop offers a challenge for software testers who want to work with self-driving cars in the context of the usual tool competition.
The deadline to submit your tool is: February 12
The results of the evaluation will be communicated to participants on: March 2
The competitors should generate virtual roads to test a lane keeping assist system.
The generated roads are evaluated in a driving simulator. We partnered with BeamNG GmbH which offers a version of their simulators for researchers, named BeamNG.research. This simulator is ideal for researchers due to its state-of-the-art soft-body physics simulation, ease of access to sensory data, and a Python API to control the simulation.

We make available a code pipeline that will integrate your test generator with the simulator by validating, executing and evaluating your test cases. Moreover, we offer some sample test generators to show how to use our code pipeline.
More information can be found on the SBST tool competition website: /
Code pipeline: code that integrates your test generator with the simulator
Self driving car testing library: library that helps the integration of the test input generators, our code pipeline, and the BeamNG simulator
Scenario template: basic scenario used in this competition
Documentation: contains the installation guide, detailed rules of the competition, and the frequently asked questions
Sample test generators: sample test generators already integrated with the code pipeline for illustrative purposes
Requirements: contains the list of the required packages.
The software we developed is distributed under GNU GPL license. See the LICENSE.md file.
Dr. Alessio Gambi - Passau University, Germany - alessio.gambi@uni-passau.de
Dr. Vincenzo Riccio - Software Institute @ USI, Lugano, Switzerland - vincenzo.riccio@usi.ch
Dr. Fiorella Zampetti - University of Sannio, Italy - fiorella.zampetti@unisannio.it
Dr. Sebastiano Panichella - Zurich University of Applied Science (ZHAW), Switzerland - panc@zhaw.ch
Cyber-Physical Systems Testing Competition
Important Dates
Goal
Implement Your Test Generator
Information About the Competition
Repository Structure
License
Contacts
