Visual Global Localization Based on Deep Neural Netwoks for Self-Driving Cars
See DeepVGL videos:
DEV version: -4YPR0AFLKq9Lh/view?usp=sharing
IARA version: 
Volta-da-UFES dataset download link: 
A Deep neural network approach for Visual Global Localization, running in real time on low-cost GPUs.
Enable DeepVGL in Carmen.
Remember to copy/generate all necessary files to the module's config folder.
required files:
(needs to have python2.7 installed on system)
If you want to train with our logs (Volta-da-UFES), follow to STEP 2.
Define the logs that will be used to train the Darknet(make sure the bumblebee and velodyne folders are present).
They are usually in "/dados".
(Use 2 or more logs to correct execution of the scripts)
Generate the logs.txt file with:
1 - the absolute path to the logs.
2 - the absolute path to the images target directory.
3 - selected camera.
4 - crop height (to eliminate IARA's car-hood).
5 - log format (1 or 2).
The first will be used to generate base poses, the other to live poses.
ex.:
Generate the pose files associated with the images, here called camerapos_files. They are a preview of datasets, but without any treatment.
For that, I run a playback of each log using the process-ground-truth-generator.ini, with the localize_neural_dataset module turned on.
Edit the process-ground-truth-generator.ini to adjust these lines to your case :
and run:
Generate images:
execute the following command to generate the images from each log selected.
UFES's dataset download link: 
Save them at /dados/ufes
Generate the logs.txt file with:
1 - the absolute path to the logs.
2 - the absolute path to the images target directory.
3 - selected camera.
4 - crop height (to eliminate IARA's car-hood).
5 - log format (1 or 2).
The first will be used to generate base poses, the other to live poses.
ex.:
Configure the following parameters on 'script/config.txt':
Generate the dataset itself:
SABGL: -UFES/SABGL
WNN-CNN-GL: -UFES/WNN-CNN-GL
table of poses / images.
network weights.
network configuration file.
UFES's dataset download link: 
Save them at /dados/ufes
DeepVGL
Operating MODE
Training MODE
LCAD previous works:
Install Carmen first and enable the localize_neural module to perform the following steps.
Get started
STEP 1
STEP 1.1
STEP 1.2
STEP 1.3
STEP 1.4
If you are going to use only your logs, go to step 3.
STEP 2
STEP 2.1 Download all image folders and respective camera pose files
STEP 2.2
STEP 3
After finishing running the dataset.sh script, start training the darknet.
Repeat steps 1.2 and 1.3 to each log selected for training.
