Made by FZI IDS/TKS. www.fzi.de
The original oadrive package is licensed under CDDL. All changes for the Audi Autonomous Driving Cup are licensed under BSD. The license for the specific parts is described at the beginning of the specific files.
The package is used to control electrical model cars in the AADC (Audi Autonomous Driving Cup). It attempts to abide to the rules defined for the Cup.
Build and install OpenCV, Aruco, redisclient. Use icmaker to create a workspace including icl_core and oadrive. See -forschungszentrum-informatik/icmaker for more information.
The package can be built independently of the ADTF development environment (which is required by the AADC). The We defined an Interface class (oadrive_interface/Interface.h). All communication with oadrive must be passed through this interface. For example usage, see src/test/test_oadrive_interface.cpp.
This allows the package to be used from within other contextes as well, like an offline simulation. If Interface::startDebugDumping() is called at startup, the Interface will write out debug data which can then be used for offline configuration.
Proper usage of the package requires calibration of the camera. This camera calibration calculates a Bird-View perspective transformation using a Matrix-Of-Circles pattern. Use test_oadrive_birdViewCal.cpp to do the calibration. Beforehand, the intrinsic camera calibration must be saved to a file (which is then passed to the test_oadrive_birdViewCal).
OpenCV:
At least Version 3.0 recommended. 2.4.11 is supported, but some features will be deactivated (mainly the semi- automatic camera calibration).
Aruco
redisclient ()
icMaker (-forschungszentrum-informatik/icmaker)
icl_core (-forschungszentrum-informatik/icl_core)
At least Version 3.0 recommended. 2.4.11 is supported, but some features will be deactivated (mainly the semi- automatic camera calibration).
oadrive - The Open Autonomous Driving Package
License
Core funtionality:
Dependencies:
Installation:
Usage:
Calibration:
