

We've prepared a Jupyter notebook that will guide you through the process of creating a single layer neural network in TensorFlow.
If you don't have Docker already, download and install Docker from here.
Run the command below to clone the Lab Repository:
Run the following command from the same directory as the command above.
Open a browser window and go here. This is the notebook you'll be working on. The notebook has 3 problems for you to solve:
This is a self-assessed lab. Compare your answers to the solutions here. If you have any difficulty completing the lab, Udacity provides a few services to answer any questions you might have.
This lab requires Anaconda and Python 3.4 or higher. If you don't meet all of these requirements, install the appropriate package(s).
Run these commands in your terminal to install all the requirements:
Run the following commands from the same directory as the commands above.
Open a browser window and go here. This is the notebook you'll be working on. The notebook has 3 problems for you to solve:
This is a self-assessed lab. Compare your answers to the solutions here. If you have any difficulty completing the lab, Udacity provides a few services to answer any questions you might have.
Remember that you can get assistance from your mentor, the Forums (click the link on the left side of the classroom), or the Slack channel. You can also review the concepts from the previous lessons.
Problem 1: Normalize the features
Problem 2: Use TensorFlow operations to create features, labels, weight, and biases tensors
Problem 3: Tune the learning rate, number of steps, and batch size for the best accuracy
Problem 1: Normalize the features
Problem 2: Use TensorFlow operations to create features, labels, weight, and biases tensors
Problem 3: Tune the learning rate, number of steps, and batch size for the best accuracy
TensorFlow Neural Network Lab
Windows Instructions
OS X and Linux Instructions
Help
Install Docker
Clone the Repository
Run the Notebook using Docker
View The Notebook
Install Anaconda
Run the Anaconda Environment
Run the Notebook
View The Notebook
